7B-release-notes-.NET-Framework (#41686)
dotnet/docs: docs/framework/release-notes/2024/07-09-july-security-and-quality-rollup.md

---
title: July 2024 security and quality rollup
description: Learn about the improvements in the .NET Framework July 2024 security and quality rollup.
ms.date: 07/09/2024
---
# July 2024 security and quality rollup

_Released July 9, 2024_

## Summary of what's new in this release

- [Security improvements](#security-improvements)
- [Quality and reliability improvements](#quality-and-reliability-improvements)

### Security improvements

#### CVE-2024-38081 – Remote code execution vulnerability

> This security update addresses a elevation of privilege vulnerability detailed in [CVE 2024-38081](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2024-38081).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This security update addresses an elevation of privilege vulnerability detailed in [CVE 2024-38081](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2024-38081).
```

### Quality and reliability improvements

This release contains the following quality and reliability improvements.

#### .NET fundamentals

> Addresses an issue with x509 certificate use under PPL in Azure AD (*Applies to: .NET Framework 4.6.2, 4.7, 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.8, 4.8.1.*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addresses an issue with x509 certificate use under PPL in Azure AD. (*Applies to: .NET Framework 4.6.2, 4.7, 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.8, 4.8.1.*)
```

#### Winforms

> Addresses an issue with the size of memory leaks associated with AccessibleObjects held in memory due to ref-counting (*Applies to: .NET Framework 4.6.2, 4.7, 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.8, 4.8.1.*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addresses an issue with the size of memory leaks associated with AccessibleObjects held in memory due to ref-counting. (*Applies to: .NET Framework 4.6.2, 4.7, 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.8, 4.8.1.*)
```

## Known issues

This release contains no known issues.  

## Summary tables

The following table outlines the updates in this release.

| Product version | Cumulative update |
| --- | --- |
| **Microsoft server operating system, version 23H2** | |
| .NET Framework 3.5, 4.8.1 | [5039892](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5039892) |
| **Windows 11, version 22H2 and Windows 11, version 23H2** | |
| .NET Framework 3.5, 4.8.1 | [5039895](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5039895) |
| **Microsoft server operating system, version 22H2** | **[5041025](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5041025)** |
| .NET Framework 3.5, 4.8 | [5039889](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5039889) |
| .NET Framework 3.5, 4.8.1 | [5039907](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5039907) |

> **Windows 11, version 21H2** | **[5037037](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5037037)** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Windows 11, version 21H2** | **[5037037](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5037037)** |
```

| **Windows Server 2008** | **[5041024](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5041024)** |
| .NET Framework 2.0, 3.0 | [5039911](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5039911) |
| .NET Framework 3.5 SP1 | [5040673](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5040673) |
| .NET Framework 4.6.2 | [5039882](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5039882) |

The following table is for earlier Windows and Windows Server versions for Security Only updates, which aren't cumulative.

| Product version | Security only update |
| --- | --- |
| **Windows Server 2008 R2** | **[5041026](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5041027)** |
| .NET Framework 3.5.1 | [5040119](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5040119) |
| .NET Framework 4.6.2, 4.7, 4.7.1, 4.7.2 | [5040122](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5040122) |
| .NET Framework 4.8 |[5040123](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5040123) |
| **Windows Server 2008** | **[5041027](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5041027)** |
| .NET Framework 2.0, 3.0 | [5040118](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5040118) |
| .NET Framework 3.5 SP1 | [5040680](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5040680) |
| .NET Framework 4.6.2 | [5040122](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/5040122) |

> The operating system row lists a KB which will be used for update offering purposes. When the operating system KB is offered, the applicability logic will determine the specific .NET Framework update(s) will be installed. Updates for individual .NET Framework versions will be installed based on the version of .NET Framework that is already present on the device. Because of this the operating system KB is not expected to be listed as installed updates on the device. The expected update to be installed are the .NET Framework specific version updates listed in the preceding table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operating system rows list a KB that's used for update-offering purposes. When the operating system KB is offered, the applicability logic determines the specific .NET Framework updates that will be installed. Updates for individual .NET Framework versions are installed based on the version of .NET Framework that's already present on the device. Because of this, the operating system KB is not expected to be listed as an installed update on the device. The expected updates to be installed are the .NET Framework&ndash;specific version updates listed in the preceding table.
```
